Human and Animals have same features if we consider this topic in term of biology, such as human have eyes - animals have eyes, humans have limbs so as animals have limbs, human use nose which they use for breathing and same goes for all the animals, So are they same? Well, in term of biology they are same as they also consider human beings as a part of animal kingdom but in non-biological terms, they are way more different from each other, but how? Let’s try to explain it in a layman language so that anyone can understand the key difference between the features of human beings and animals.
Let’s try to distinguish between common animals (like cows, horse, zebra, camel,goat,giraffe etc.) and humans using some basic rules, although there are some exception in these rules with some animals but let’s make it as simple as possible and discuss the exceptional case later. As we know all the animals and humans have two eyes, but the placement of eyes are different,in detail the placement of eyes of humans are in such a way that they can see up to 180 degree at one glance while the giraffe and goats and the others, have a wider view. Their eye placement is at the side of their head while humans eyes are forward facing.
Another major difference between these animals and humans is that these animals usually walk on 4 legs while humans can stand on two legged straight stance. Their nostrils are more broader than humans and their skin color is also different from human beings as we humans have limited skin shades while animal’s skin create different kinds of different coloured pigment. Now let’s talk about some animals which are more similar to human beings as compare to other animals such as gorillas and monkeys.But their body is covered with a forest of hair and their skin is harsh as compare to human beings so we can identify them easily.
Teeths are also distinguishing factor between these to species. There are a lot of factors we can talk about but i guess these factors are enough for a layman to distinguish.